Background
All students are required to propose and deliver a ’State of the Art’ project. In this project you will
explore recent advances in Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning (ML), as well as their use in
various application areas. The projects are due on the last day of classes. For this project, students can work
in groups of 3-4 people. Each team/student will present their results in short (10 minutes) video presentation
in addition to submitting a written report and all code and data used in their project performance. Reports
and code are due at the time of the presentation. The projects will be graded using the criteria described
below with the following weights assigned to various parts:
(10%) Project Topic Selection (due Nov. 13)
(30%) Topic significance
(30%) Final presentation
(30%) Technical report
Project Topic Selection
You will select the project and your team. In the project you will explore recent advances in AI/ML on
any problem or technique discussed in class. It can also be about AI/ML application to an area not discussed
in class such as automated driving, computer security, software engineering, etc. You can use sources such
as conferences (AAAI, CVPR, ICCV, WACV, IJCAI, ECCV, etc.), GitHub repositories, YouTube videos,
and journals. It can also be about a Foundation Model which can be used in AI/ML applications. You
should look for works which demonstrate their results on public datasets and publish their code. For most
topics you can find standards datasets and leaderboards which show the best performing methods. Once you
identify your sources you should write a one to two page proposal describing the problem and documenting
the sources you intend to use. In your proposal you should list the names of your team members.
Topic Significance
This part of the grade will evaluate how well you demonstrate that the selected methods are indeed the
state of the art in solving the selected problem. This can be done by showing how the discussed methods
perform on standard datasets and how they compare to other related works. The grade will be assigned as
follows (from 30% total):
(15%) The selected methods demonstrate a solution to an interesting problem in AI/ML or applications.
(15%) The importance is well documented by performance on standard datasets, position on leaderboards, or publication in leading conferences or journals.
Final Presentation
Each team will present their project in a short (10 minutes) video presentation. Slides are not required,
but are highly recommended. The presentation should provide sufficient background so that it can be followed
by students who took the class. It should properly credit the sources and demonstrate the performance.
Finally, the conclusions and possible future directions should be presented. The grade will be assigned as
follows (from 30% total):
(5%) The project is well motivated and sources are properly attributed. Conclusions and future
directions are meaningful.
(10%) The methods studied are clearly presented.
(15%) The performance is clearly and comprehensively demonstrated.
Technical Report
Each team will submit a technical report, the documented code, and all their data in a zip file or a
tarball. The report should be written as a technical paper and should have the following parts:
Abstract. A short summary of the project, including the main idea, methods, and tests should be given.
This part should be about 200-250 words long.
Introduction and Related Work. The problem should be described here. The proposed approach should be
described and all related works should be cited.
Technical Approach. The studied method(s) should be described in sufficient detail. Mathematics and
figures should be used as needed to make it possible for a reader with sufficient background (say, a CS 480
student) to understand the importance of the methods on their own. How the methods were tested and how
their performance was demonstrated should be presented and discussed. The contribution of each member
should be described in one paragraph. Each team member should include a paragraph describing their own
experience and comments about what was done well, what was missed or could have been done if there was
more time and/or expertise.
Conclusions. Conclusions should discuss the importance of the discussed method/topic. Possible future
directions should be discussed briefly.
References. All cited works.
The reports will be graded on clarity and coverage of all required parts.